---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

/* This is a link to [another document.](doc3.md) */
/* This is a link to an [external page.](http://www.example.com) */


## Accountability
The ability to detect that a trade did not execute as expected.



## Access key
In eWallet suite, an access key is an identifying pair of keys (access/secret) used by a provider's server application to communicate with eWallet. A combination is used here instead of a single key to prevent timing- based attacks.



## Access token
In eWallet suite, an access token is a temporary token generated by the eWallet API and returned through a provider's backend application to the client. It can then be used with an API key to make non-sensitive calls to eWallet.



## Accounts
Accounts refers to a grouping of users and wallets. It can be used by a provider admin to define logical groupings according to its business needs; for example, an account for each product branding, each store branch, each sales team or each operating region.



## API
Application Programming Interface. The interface between different software programs, for example, between OmiseGO eWallet and a provider's existing wallet platform).



## API key
In eWallet suite, an API Key is a perishable key sent from a mobile application to make authenticated, non-sensitive API calls to eWallet.



## Average block time
Source: https://medium.facilelogin.com/the-mystery-behind-block-time-63351e35603a

Block time is the time it takes to mine a block. On any blockchain, there is an expected block time, and an average block time. Expected block time is set at a constant value. Average block time of the network is evaluated after n number of blocks. If average block time is greater than the expected block time, then the difficulty level of the proof of work algorithm is reduced, and if it is less than the expected block time then the difficulty level is increased. 



## BlockHeight
The number of blocks in a blockchain, counted between the last block and the first block.

## Blockchain
A digital record (or ledger) consisting of cryptographically linked blocks. Each block contains a cryptographic hash of the previous block, a timestamp, and transaction data (typically represented as a Merkle tree). Transactions are made in cryptocurrency and are chronologically ordered and public.



## CEX
A centralized network. A type of network where users and nodes are all connected to a central server. See https://101blockchains.com/ultimate-blockchain-technology-guide/



## Child chain

See also root chain



## Chain validator
PoS block proposer and transaction verifier.



## Clearing
Refers to the procedure by which financial trades settle; that is, the correct and timely transfer of funds to the seller and securities to the buyer. Often with clearing, a specialized organization acts as intermediary and assumes the role of tacit buyer and seller in a transaction, to reconcile orders between transacting parties. Clearing is necessary for the matching of all buy and sell orders in the market. It provides smoother and more efficient markets as parties can make transfers to the clearing cooperation rather than to each individual party with whom they transact.



## Consensus algorithm
A process that allows nodes (devices or data points) in a distributed system or blockchain network to reach agreement.



## Contract
A contract is an agreement involving two or more parties to a mutual obligation.
*A smart contract is a self-executing contract that executes when a certain set of parameters or conditions are met.
*An immutable contract is a deployed contract in which developers cannot go back and add, delete, or modify its code.
The technical standard used for smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain (for implementing tokens) is ERC20. Most tokens issued on the Ethereum blockchain are ERC-20 compliant.



## Cold storage
An offline wallet provided for storing cryptocurrency.



## Custody
A custodian owns the private keys and therefore controls the asset in an account (or address).
Custodial services help individuals take care of securing their keys, funds, or securities; for example, a brokerage or other financial institution, such as a bank. The custody service takes care of assets on behalf of the client to reduce the risk to the client of losing their assets. For example, a custodial service might also store private keys in a hardware solution to hold crypto funds on behalf of users who don't want to keep their own keys. 
See also: Restricted Custody



## Decentralized Application (dApp)
Also known as *dApp*. An open-source application that utilizes blockchain technology, runs on a P2P network, and adheres to its own consensus algorithm.



## Decentralized Exchange
Also known as DEX. A cryptocurrency exchange that trades via an automated, peer to peer process instead of through a centralized authority.

* No third party operator
* Low trading volume (less than CEX)
* Low liquidity.
* Private key is available to store
* Information is stored in nodes so cannot be hacked
* Market traders are only part of the platform
* No database entry; all entries are in blockchain
* Peer to peer exchange
* High level of privacy because trader details cannot be stored
* Infrastructure not at risk less because distributed through nodes



## Decentralized Finance (DeFI)
Also known as DeFi. OmiseGO is a contributor and supporter of DeFi, enabling interoperability of multiple solutions to guard against fragmentation.
DeFi requires a network with an ecosystem that makes it attractive for products to be built on, including adequate liquidity. DeFi can lower barriers to access financial services, supporting provision of loans, for example, since data on the blockchain can be used as input to identify credit risk of the debtor. Financial literacy is a requirement since users must look after their own keys and use the technology responsibly.



## Decentralized network
In a decentralized network, data is not stored or administrated by a private server. Instead, the blockchain is redundantly stored and monitored by many nodes, distributed amongst a web of individual machines with different owners that perform continuous consensus on the validity of changes to its state. If this sounds like you’re being asked to trust a bunch of strangers to behave honestly, it’s actually quite the opposite: there are mechanisms in place to reward nodes that align themselves with network consensus, and penalize those which do not. (See the Proof of Stake for more on OmiseGO's specific enforcement mechanisms) Centralized networks require trust in a central party, which will maybe - even probably - act responsibly. However, centralized systems are necessarily opaque and gated, and centralized databases are vulnerable to attack because they present a single point of entry for bad actors looking to steal or manipulate that data. In contrast, decentralized networks are transparent in that every state and every state change (i.e. every balance and every transaction) is stored on a shared ledger, which can be viewed by anyone, or are obscured in a way that makes voluntary provable traceability possible where necessary, so there is no need to trust the word of a central authority



## EIP-712
Ethereum standard. Allows signing of a plasma transaction with MetaMask; typed message signing and data hashing in a structured and readable format.



## ERC-20
Ethereum standard. Gives developers a set of rules and guidelines to follow in order to issue and implement tokens within the Ethereum ecosystem.



## Ethereum platform
The platform of the world's second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization. Ethereum was launched in July 2015, by Vitalik Buterin. The goal of the platform is to provide developers with an open distributed network for starting their own decentralized applications (DApps) and smart contracts. If the Bitcoin network plays the role of a peer-to-peer payment system, then Ethereum is designed to execute the program code using a decentralized virtual machine (EVM). 
See also: https://www.ethereum.org/



## eWallet Server
The server component of the eWallet Suite. Previously called the "eWallet" and "eWallet server application".



## eWallet Suite
Refers to the entire range of server applications, client applications, SDKs available for building a complete eWallet solution. The eWallet Suite includes the eWallet Server, the Admin Panel, the AdminAPI and ClientAPI, and Point-of-Sale app examples.



## Exits
Exit refers to the position at which an investor or institution sells their stake or liquidates their assets to claim a gain or loss.



## Front running
Also known as tailgating. The prohibited practice of entering into an equity (stock) trade, option, futures contract, derivative, or security-based swap, to capitalize on advance, nonpublic knowledge of a large ("block") pending transaction that will influence the price of the underlying security.



## Gas price
"Gas is a unit of measuring the computational work of running transactions or smart contracts in the Ethereum network. This system is similar to the use of kilowatts (kW) for measuring electricity in your house; the electricity you use isn’t measured in dollars and cents but instead through kWH or Kilowatts per hour."

"Gas price refers to the amount of Ether you’re willing to pay for every unit of gas, and is usually measured in “Gwei”. An analogy for gas price – relating to the previous analogy for gas limits – is that it is similar to the cost of each litre of fuel that you’re paying for filling up your car."

Source: https://masterthecrypto.com/ethereum-what-is-gas-gas-limit-gas-price/



## Hard spoon
Defined by Jae Kwon as, " ... a new chain that takes into account state from an existing chain; not to compete, but to provide broad access."

Defined by Vitalik Buterin as, "... a meta-protocol on top of a blockchain creating a token that inherits the blockchain’s underlying token's balances. The idea of a soft spoon would be to create two competing *branches of a protocol* within *the same blockchain.*"



## Integration libraries
Integration libraries exist in the layer between between web apps and the blockchain, providing the end-to-end infrastructure for integrating an end-user application, from application to library to watcher to child chain. The eWallet, as a web app, also uses this infrastructure to connect to the blockchain.

## Interoperability
A characteristic of a product or system, which has interfaces that are understood to be able to work with other products or systems, at present or in the future, in either implementation or access, without any restrictions.
See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interoperability



## Liquidity
May be described as, the ability to buy or sell assets (including digital assets) in the market, at a good price). Liquidity implies that you can buy and sell your asset quickly, at the desired price.

A 'liquid market' means there are investors willing to trade; a 'liquid asset' means an asset that is easily converted to cash.

See also https://www.binance.vision/economics/liquidity-explained



## Mainnet
A blockchain network on which projects run. The product that is the realization of the goals of the project.



## Market maker
A dealer in securities or other assets (for example, a company, financial institution, or individual0, who commits to buying and selling some quantity of asset at a publicly quoted price at all times.



## Mempool
On a blockchain, mempool (memory pool) is the number of currently unconfirmed transactions. The mempool figure is an estimate, and changes frequently, as the status of transactions goes from unconfirmed to confirmed. The size of the mempool is an indicator of transactions waiting to be included in the block. A large mempool means the network is getting full, which delays the transaction, and increases network fees. The size of the mempool is thus an important indicator for determining how the network handles transactions.




## Mint
A mint is a record of each occurrence when more tokens were put into circulation.



## MoreVP


## Node
Any computer that connects to the blockchain network.



## ODP
Short for OmiseGO Developer Program. Find out more [here](https://developer.omisego.co/)



## OMG
Short for OmiseGO, the name of the OmiseGO Network. Also, the ticker of the ERC 20 token used to secure the network.



## OMG token
A utility and staking token that gives users the right to take an active role by running validator nodes on OmiseGO's Proof of Stake network, using their tokens as a security deposit. 

An OMG token is a conduit for bringing value to Ethereum mainnet, because the value of the OMG token is backed by the value of the amounts transacted on the OmiseGO Network (both external, real-world money, and crypto-money) and being pushed through the network’s decentralized exchange (including the other applications, businesses, and token projects that are outsourcing their DEX requirements to it). As the OmiseGO platform and the underlying network evolves over time, so does the nature and role of the OMG token.



## OmiseGO
Pronounced oh-mee-say-go, OmiseGO is an incorporated entity, a subsidiary of Omise Holdings.



## Order matching
Refers to a market's rules for managing trades (to match orders). An order for OmiseGO and the industry is the intent to trade, which includes the following:
* An instrument (an asset - crypto)
* A price
* Volume (quantity)



## Operator
The company or user running the software that provides blockchain services.



## Proof of Stake
Also known as *PoS*. A blockchain consensus algorithm.



## Proof of Work
Also known as *PoW*. A blockchain consensus algorithm, invented by Satoshi Nakamoto.



## Peer-to-peer
Also known as P2P, a system in which peers (computers) can connect, share resources, or transact with each other, without the need for a central server.



## Plasma
Plasma is the scaling solution of OmiseGO. It is a framework for incentivized and enforced execution of smart contracts.



## Plasma block verifier
The entity that verifies blocks in a plasma chain. In OmiseGO’s case, an entity that runs the watcher software.



## Plasma cash
Assets deposited into a Plasma Cash chain are represented as non-fungible tokens (NFTs). Blocks are different from Plasma MVP, in that each Plasma Cash block allocates a slot for each token. 
When a token is transacted, a record of that transaction is placed at the corresponding slot. Plasma cash removes Plasma MVP’s exit time constraints and reduces user storage and computation requirements by only requiring users watch their own value.



## Plasma XT
Introduces checkpointing from the plasma chain to the root chain, which allows for periodic finalization of a coin’s ownership in order to reduce the amount of data which must be stored and verified by each user to limit the storage and computation requirements per coin.



## Plasma debt
A proposal for enabling partial balances (spending only part of the value of a non-fungible token) in a Plasma Cash construction by making every token a payment channel between the user and the chain operator.



## Private key
The private key grants a cryptocurrency user ownership of the funds on a given address. The Blockchain wallet automatically generates and stores private keys for you.



## Proof
A piece of data, which you can show to the world to prove that some fact is correct or incorrect.



## Proof of Authority
Also known as *PoA*. A consensus mechanism in a private blockchain that gives one client (or a specific number of clients) with one particular private key, the right to make all of the blocks in the blockchain.



## Proof of Stake
Also known as PoS. An alternative to Proof-of-Work. In Proof of Stake, your existing stake in a cryptocurrency (the amount of that currency that you hold) is used to calculate the amount of that currency that you can mine.

In Proof of Work (PoW), a miner or validator has to expend an enormous amount of computing power to mine a block. Proof of Stake requires a validator to stake their tokens to validate; essentially, put their tokens in a security deposit. If they validate actively and honestly they are rewarded; if they behave dishonestly they lose tokens. Both systems are designed to make faulty behavior cost more than it’s worth: The brute computational strength needed to mine a block in a PoW system represents both a substantial investment in hardware and a great deal of energy consumed. The first miner to demonstrate correct PoW on a mined block receives a block reward as well as transaction fees associated with that block. That investment is a sunk cost regardless of the outcome; miners who misbehave (e.g. submitting incorrect proofs) will expend resources and see no returns, while honest ones have a chance of collecting block rewards that make them their money back and then some.

Proof of Stake does not require the hardware and burned energy of PoW. Instead, validators put their investment (in the form of tokens) directly into the system, get rewarded in the form of transaction fees for non-faulty behavior, and are penalized by the protocol for faulty behavior. That penalty can take the form of either hard slashing (loss of all staked tokens) or soft slashing (loss of returns). OmiseGO used soft slashing in its initial Honte implementation. Returns are distributed in proportion to the number of tokens staked. However, PoS still represents a more equitable system in that returns are directly proportional to your stake. In PoW, the more computing power you have, the cheaper it is to add more - and since computing power is what earns you mining rewards, this leads to people with lots of money collecting disproportionately larger returns. In PoS, a dollar is a dollar no matter how many of them you have.



## Protocol
An established set of rules or parameters for formatting, transmitting, and communicating data between network devices.



## Prover
The entity that generates proofs for trades.



## Restricted custody
A safety guarantee that protects user funds on the network. 
OmiseGO's restricted custody is the safety mechanism that protects user funds when they're trading at an exchange, which guarantees that if an operator (OmiseGO in this case) attempts to steal funds, users will not lose their money. User funds can only be lost if the operator and the exchange collude to steal funds. 
OmiseGO's security guarantee is enforced in its protocol, whereby the actual platform prevents the operator from acting dishonestly.
Three parties must agree to allow OmiseGO's exchange to trade: user, operator/OmiseGO, and exchange. 
This mechanism allows OmiseGO to provide protection for the exchange.



## Root chain

See also, child chain



## Secret key
In eWallet suite, a secret key acts as a password and is sent from a provider's backend application to authenticate requests.



## Settlement
Refers to the exchange of payment to the seller and the transfer of securities to the buyer of a trade.
Settlement is the final step in the lifecycle of a securities transaction.
Settlement is similar to PSP (Payment Service Provider), reconciliation reports, and so on. The purpose of the audit layer is to support the integrity of these settlements, to ensure that all data is valid.



## Shared liquidity
Shared liquidity implies that there are a large amount (a pool) of orders. OmiseGO does not offer shared liquidity; instead, OmiseGo allows users to move their funds easily between venues. For example, if OmiseGO offered shared liquidity, Binance and GO.Exchange could see and access the orders of both (it is a shared/combined view of orders).



## Staking
Staking refers to holding a cryptocurrency or token in a wallet for a period of time, in return for interest. Staking returns depend on staking (holding) time; the longer the stake duration, the higher the returns.



## Testnet
A sandbox environment for developers to work on the prototype of a project.



## Token
A token is a type of currency, such as loyalty points, cryptocurrency, and tokenized fiat. Identified by a symbol (OMG, BTC, USDT). By default, a token is not backed by the blockchain, which means a provider can only make internal transfers, between the provider's wallets and the users wallets (back and forth) or between accounts. If a provider wishes to have one of its token backed, the address of the smart contract on the blockchain needs to be defined in the token details to uniquely identify it.



## Trading protocol
A list of well-defined protocols that determine communications on electronic trading platforms.





## Token
A digital identity for something that can be owned.



## Trade verifier
Entity in the secure settlement that verifies correctness of matching off-chain. Role may be performed by the venue or a trusted third-party.

## Transactions
On the eWallet Server, a transaction is an exchange of value between two wallets. Transactions are stored in the local ledger using a DEB approach. DEB (Double Entry Bookkeeping) is a system where an entry is created and DEBIT/CREDIT transactions are linked to it. The sum of all debits minus the sum of all credits for a specific entry has to be equal to 0. Summing up all credit transactions minus all debit transactions for a specific balance address and token symbol gives the balance of that address.



## Users
In the context of eWallet suite, a user can either be a regular user or a staff user (also known as admin). In the first case, it would be someone using the end-user applications created by providers (mobile applications for example), who was added to the eWallet database by the provider. In the second case, it's a user able to access the OmiseGO admin panel.



## UTXO
Unspent Transaction Output. See: https://bitcoin.org/en/glossary/unspent-transaction-output



## Validator
A person who is responsible for verifying transactions in a blockchain.



## Venue
An entity that holds the order book and matches orders.

Retail venue vs institutional venue.



## Wallet
A wallet in a balance identified by an address that is used to group transactions, and holds a value. A user can have more than one balance, if required, and a balance can contain different currencies. You can learn more about wallets at https://github.com/omisego/ewallet/blob/master/docs/design/wallets.md



## White label
White label SDKs allow developers to create their own designs, styles, and even custom application integrations.


